We are finally all complete with that air handling stuff.
So now it's time to move on and start to actually implement our signup flow.
Whenever a user signs up to our application, as you would imagine, one of the first things we need
to do is take that email and password and create some entry inside of some database to reflect that
user being created.
We discussed previously when we were first talking about the architecture of this application that we
were going to be using MongoDB across the board.
So in this video, we're going to start to focus on adding in Mongoose into our express application
or really the service.
And we're going to make sure that we also have a MongoDB instance to communicate with as well.
Now as a quick reminder, once again, every copy or every service that we are going to implement is
going to have its own instance of MongoDB, its own private instance.
And this goes back to that whole idea of one database per service.
So in this video, we're going to install Mongoose into our project.
We're also going to set up a new MongoDB instance inside of our Kubernetes cluster as well.
Let's first just install Mongoose because that's pretty easy and straightforward.
So back at my terminal.
Inside my.
Off directory.
I will run npm install mongoose.
Well, yep.
That's easy enough.
Now that Mongoose is installed into our project, let's go ahead and create a new instance of MongoDB.
So how are we going to do that?
Well, MongoDB is just like any other thing that we're trying to run inside of our Kubernetes cluster.
We are going to be running MongoDB inside of a pod.
And remember, we usually do not create pods directly.
Instead, we make use of deployments.
The deployment is going to create a pod for us.
And in order to communicate with this pod, we're going to have to create a cluster IP service to go
along with it as well.
In total, we're going to really just be writing out one single deployment file.
So a config file that's going to look very similar to one we already put together for the authentication
service.
So back at my editor.
I'm going to find the infra AIDS directory and inside there I'm going to make a new file called off
dash mongo dash deploy yaml.
That is the general naming strategy that we're going to use for our different databases that we create.
We're going to put in the service that owns this database, the type of database.
So in this case it's MongoDB, and then we are creating a deployment, so we're going to abbreviate
that simply as devel.
Then inside of here, once again, we're going to write out some configuration that's going to look
very similar to what we already have inside of our deployment file.
So at the very top, we'll get our API version of apps.
Be one.
A kind of deployment.
The metadata section will give this a name of off mongo double.
Then our spec section will have replicas.
One.
We'll put in that selector.
With a match labels property of app.
Off Dash Bongo.
Then our pod template where we will have some metadata once again.
But the label section that has app auth dash mongo.
So once again, we've gone over this many times now remember this is going to be a label that gets applied
to the pod.
This selector thing right here is how the deployment is going to find the pods that it actually creates.
After the metadata section will then add in a spec for the pod.
We'll say that there's going to be one container, so we'll put in the container section with a single
array entry.
We're going to give that container a name of off mongo and we'll specify the image as simply mango.
Now a quick reminder on where this image is coming from right here.
Remember that on Docker Hub.
So if we go to NBC.com instead of our browser right now, there are a wide variety of different images
hosted on Docker Hub for public use.
So if I do a search at the very top for simply mongo, I'll see that there is in fact a image called
Mongo.
This is an officially hosted image that we can run to get a MongoDB database.
So by just putting in an image name of Mongo, we are referring to this image right here.
If we ever want to understand how to configure this thing, we can always read some of the documentation
on this page as well.
Okay.
So that's it for the deployment.
But remember, after creating the deployment, we're also going to create a cluster IP service inside
of here so that we can actually connect to the pods that are going to be created.
So I'm going to add in a dash, dash, dash to indicate that I want to put in some configuration for
a second object.
Well, then put in an API version of v1a kind of service.
Metadata.
What?
The name of Mongo CRV.
A spec.
With a selector.
Of App Dash Mango.
Remember when we put the selector together inside of a service that is telling the service which pods
it is going to govern access to?
So in this case, we're saying find a set of pods or any pod with a label of app off mongo.
And of course, that matches up to the one that we just put right there.
So we can list out all of the different ports.
So we want to allow access to.
We're only going to expose one port.
I'm going to give it a name of simply DB.
Remember, the name that we put here is really just for logging purposes.
Once we start to print out information about this service, if we ever do at our terminal, it's going
to give us a name of DB for this port.
The name that you put there?
Not super important.
I actually used a different name in my notes than DB.
Just when we were writing this config file I thought, hey, DB makes sense.
Let's just use that instead.
List, a protocol of TCP and then a port of 2701 seven and a target port of 2701 seven.
Why are we using this port right here?
Well, by default, MongoDB listens for incoming traffic on 2701 seven.
That is the default port for Mongo.
And so that's why I put it in here.
You would normally have to do a little bit of research to figure out what port a given database or a
given application is going to be listing on.
To do so, you would look up some information about the image itself, so I could go back over to that
Docker hub page over here, and chances are I should be able to do a search on this page.
420 7017 And sure enough, yep, it does say, hey, to connect to this thing, it's going to be listing
on Port 2701 seven.
All right, so that's it for our service.
That is it for our deployment.
It's now to create this database, and the service will just do yet another.
Either it'll apply or a better way of handling this would be to just make use of scaffold, because
remember, scaffold is going to try to deploy all the different files we list out inside this directory.
Sometimes scaffold does not actually see when we create new files, however.
So I'm going to go back over to the window that is running scaffold.
It looks like in my case, Scaffold did see that I created that new file.
And so I see right here that scaffold has gone ahead, applied that file, and my deployment has been
created and the service has been created as well.
In your terminal window running scaffold.
If for some reason you do not see this information, then all you have to do is get control C and restart
scaffold by running scaffold dev once again.
Once everything gets applied, we should then be able to do a little get pods.
Oh, I'm connected to the wrong.
Luster right now.
They fix that up.
That's better.
We should build to do a little get pods and see our authentication.
Mongo deployment.
Cool.
So it looks good.
So now in theory we are running a copy of MongoDB for our off service.
So let's take a quick pause right here.
When we come back, the next video, we're going to make sure that our actual service has some code
inside of it to reach out and connect to the Mongo instance running inside of this pod.